## The Premise

I designed this Service Portal Inside and Out course as a way of helping ServiceNow developers learn the platform in the manner that I think provides the quickest reward for the time invested: hands-on development. It is important and valuable to be able to access text-based documentation and training materials for a platform as complex as ServiceNow, and I would not try to talk anyone out of using those resources. I use NowLearning and docs.servicenow.com and a wide range of blogs to help me understand what I am trying to do every day.

But to learn something new in the world of development you have to get your hands dirty. 

The majority of the learning we will do together will happen while you are completing the projects I have planned for you. To organize these projects in a way that is easy for you to access and at the same time which are reflective of how real ServiceNow developers work I will make use of ServiceNow records and the general framework of the Agile Development module on the platform. The concept is often described as eating your own cookies or dog-fooding. We will use the tools we are learning to learn the tools themselves.

Generally speaking what you will see here are the following:

* Knowledge articles containing content that supports the projects. On the job you might get thrown into the deep end of the pool with no support or guidance, but I won't do that to you here. Before every project I will prepare you at least part of the way with technical guidance on how to approach the work.

* Epic records from the Agile Development module describing the projects I have designed for you. These epics come in many different sizes, and my intention is to make sure not everything you tackle will take a long time to complete. You will be able to see the scope associated with each epic in the records I have provided.

* Story records associated with those Epics that describe a singular scope of development effort. This is typically how things go with ServiceNow projects, where the larger effort might be described in an epic, but will be broken down into stories that can be completed by an individual developer and tested (usually) in isolation from other work.

* More Knowledge articles containing either partial or complete solutions to the projects. I will actually use the term 'Sprint Review' to describe my walkthrough of solutions, since this is the Agile Development ceremony that real development teams (sometimes) use for developers to show off their solutions. These will not always represent the 'only' solution to the technical challenges ahead of you, and they won't always be the best way of doing things. 

There are two things I want you to be aware of regarding the technical approaches I offer and the projects I am suggesting:

First of all, not all of the projects you find here are good ideas. As a matter of fact, several of the projects I have specced out for you would probably be a pretty bad idea to do in a production environment. The 'why' for much of this work is not important. When you're learning to build what matters is the 'how.'

Secondly you should know that I am not an expert in this field. Even though I am pretty experienced and I am very confident in my approaches there may be better ways to do many of the things I suggest, and I encourage you to question my choices regularly. Where there are things I describe that are simply 'do not do that' rules, I will state this clearly and I will provide links to resources that back me up. But for most of my technical solution I am driving towards just getting the work done in a way that makes technical sense and adheres to best practices in ServiceNow.

It's all about practice.

References:


