## Service Portal and the Employee Center

Before we proceed with how we work with Service Portal projects let’s review some important first principles of the product. To begin with, ServiceNow is a database driven workflow platform. The primary purpose that drives how it works is the notion of gathering information about work that needs to be done into a record, and then pushing that record through a workflow of updates, notifications, and programmatic changes to other records.

ServiceNow is great for providing an easy way to record what is being done and helping people communicate about that work. It stores things over time, which is great for planning and reporting and things like that, and because it's programmatic by nature it can save people a lot of effort.

But think about how things get done in a workplace — whether it’s an IT help desk or a Human Resources office or a computer store. There are customers and salespeople, HR reps and employees, people who lost their passwords and people who can reset passwords. These are each complex relationships, and the various roles of the people involved imply things like the ability to help, the authority to view data, and the responsibility for taking actions on things.

If those work-related records are all stored in one big database driven platform, not everyone should see things in those records in the same way. Since things change from office to office and company to company, it’s kind of unfair to think that the talented and clever people at ServiceNow would create a single interface to get at those records that works for everyone, is easy to use, and makes sense. That’s why from early on in the platform’s history ServiceNow has provided an ‘employee experience’ interface that is more easily customized and is a little more user friendly so that we can differentiate between what is basically the fulfiller’s view and what is the customer’s view. Back end and front end.

Early on that employee experience view was the CMS, or Content Management System. Some companies may actually still have this in use, although I hope not. After CMS ServiceNow developed a more standards-based and more easily deployed interface called the Service Portal and this is of course why we are working together.

The next evolution of the customer experience interface is the Employee Center, which is essentially Service Portal plus. More on that later.

With the Service Portal or the Employee Center here is what we get:

* A landing page that is easily branded to look like it belongs to our company. Logo, colors, font, everything.
* A web interface that is flexible enough to work on a range of screen sizes from mobile phones to large monitors
* An easy to use tool for reviewing the state of records, making updates to them, and filling out forms to send information into the platform.

And all that is available out of the box without any development work. Digging in further for us developers we can add the following to the list:

* A set of reusable components that can be rearranged to construct unique interfaces based on our needs and interests
* A standards based development platform that is easy to learn
* An environment where changes and enhancements can be built, tested, and deployed rapidly.

In my experience these features are actually abused a bit my companies who take the ease of develpment for ServiceNow portals as an invitation to customize their end user experiences to an extreme degree, introducing technical debt and often convoluting the user experience rather than enhancing it. This is not the place to address that directly, but one goal I have for this project is to provide you with the tools to perform customizations and custom development in a way that is sensible and easily supported. Making it make sense to your end users is up to you.

References:
