## SeviceNow ‘Good Practices’ for developers

While the focus of this course is to introduce concepts specific to the Service Portal technologies on the platform, there are a number of important rules of the road that we as developers should keep in mind as we do our work. Usually you would hear the term 'best practices' in this context, but when I put down guidelines like these I hate to assume I know best. I think I do, and I think my experience on the platform puts me in a pretty good position to know the right way to do things. But I do not know everything, and personally I am opposed to pedantic adherence to rules handed down from an expert.

Just take these as 'good practices' that if you stick to them they will help save you trouble later on.

### Obtain a Personal Development Instance

In order to work on the projects I am offering you will naturally require a ServiceNow instance. Do not do these things on your company's instnace -- even if it is a development instance. You will want the flexibility to break things, be noisy, and generally mess things up without worrying about how you might affect others. So navigate to https://developer.servicenow.com, sign up, log in, and do your work on your own Personal Development Instance (PPI).

## Working with a PDI

Once you have deployed your instance and can log in the first thing you should do is to create an admin account for yourself. As a matter of fact, go through the process of creating a group, giving it the admin and security_admin roles, and adding your personal account to it.

It is a good practice to do your work in the platform with awareness of the account you are using and the roles it has been provisioned. As you do your work over a long period of time it will become helpful to you to find changes you have made by referring to the account you were using when you made them, so doing everything as 'admin' means you are losing that ability.

If you want to do this in a coder way I have added a fix script to the resources folder that you can run the first time you fire up a PDI 

## About ServiceNow versions

If you are currently on the job, it is likely best to choose a version for your PDI that roughly matches what you are using at work. This is not a rule, but is insteand a choice that could help keep your sanity so you do not have to deal with any subtle differences going back and forth between learning and working.

It is a good practice to not only be aware of the platform version you are using, but also to deliberately align your development work with the target environment. This will smooth the way for moving the work into production once it's complete. From big picture, product-oriened perspective this also allows you as a developer to discuss what you are building in terms of compatibility. 

## DRY Principles in development

## Working with Update Sets

## Modifying Out of the Box components

